# Project Running Analytics

Hello everybody!

This project is composed, basically, by a OOP architecture in Python to facilitate the use of functions which give me access to the json Data from the Nike Run Club API.
Then, with other methods inside the class Run, I was able to do a Data Cleaning step to get two DataFrames with different granularities:

1. df: DataFrame with granularity by minute of each run
2. df_agg: DataFrame with granularity by run

With this structure, I plotted some charts to analyze my historical running data and, in the last part, I did some Statistical Tests.

# Backend

The backend files are on the folder `running` and are basically the python files `run.py` and `utils.py`.
Here are the quick description about what I do in each file.

- `run.py`: On this file, I created a class Run and built a sequence of methods to generate the two DataFrames structures I've mentioned above:
  1. `get_data_raw`: get the raw historical data provided by the Nike Run Club API
  2. `get_speed`, `get_pace`, `get_distance`: get the metrics available on the json files. Each metrics is actually a key inside the value of a superior key called 'metrics'
  3. `get_run`: get all the metrics on the same DataFrame, treat the date columns and create some more columns for Feature Engineering
  4. `get_total_runs`: concatenation of the data generated by `get_run`, for all the dates available in the raw data. The final DataFrame is the df, with granularity by minute of each run
  5. `get_agg_runs`: aggregation of the previous df to get a granularity of runs

- `utils`: On this file, I created some helpers to use on the functions created on the file `run.py`.
  1. `day_part`: get the part of the day of the run (Morning, Evening, Afternoon)
  2. `get_period`: get the Brazilian time zone
  3. `get_total_km`: get a column with a constant value which is equal to the final distance of each run

# Analysis

This part of the present work is better explained in my [Medium Article](https://medium.com/@eduardoscovino/an%C3%A1lise-de-dados-em-corridas-de-rua-com-o-app-nike-run-f843192819e6).

Basically, I tried to analyze the consistency and performance of my running trainings with some hypothesis related to pace, distance and parts of the day.

In the session of Statistics, I plotted the distribution curve of my paces to verify if it was a normal curve. Then, I did two statiscal tests to investigate the influence of the part of the day and of the kilometer on my average pace.

Enjoy!!
